# DSPB801_Project
## ALL AUDIO FILES SHOULD BE IN WAV FORMAT
 This repository has:
  * 4 M files
     * simple_voice_scrambler: This the file one runs when you want to scarmble any audio file
     * train : This is the file to train the voice ID algorithm
     * test : this is the file to test the voice ID on new data.
     * audio_player : plays any audio file fed to it.
       
  * 1 mat file
     * speaker_databse : This file contains the database of audio features extracted by simple_voice_scrambler file.
       
  *  Many wav files
     * The all wav files titled {letter}{number} i.e b4. are audio files used to train the simple_voice_scrambler. Any other wav files are generated by oher files.
     * w, x, y, z test are all files one can use to test the Voice ID algorithm. where w,x,y,z correspond to a,b,c,d group audio files, thus when w_test.wav is applied to the voiceID, this should be identified as speaker 1.

 ## simple_voice_scrambler
 To use this file:
  1. Add the audio file path to scramble in line 2
  2. The segment size can be changed in line 5, where 1 = 1 second
  3. Run the file, the original audio file will be played
  4. The algorithm will no pause and only play the scrambled wav file after the user presses any key on the command window (of matlab, not system).
  5. After the scramled voice has been played, the algorithm will pause again and wait for the same prompt from the user again before playing the descrambled audio.

## Train 
To use this file:
 1. In line 5 add the audio files to be used for training. For data security, use random id for the wav files and not speaker identifiers. a1-a5 = speaker 1, b1-b5 = speaker 2...
 2. In line 10 add the speaker labels
 3. In line 16, add the number of speakers
 4. In line 43, add the speaker lables once more.
 5. The database created is titled in line 60.

The file outputs the averaged frequency domain signals. The averages are averages of each speakers audio signals.

## Test
To use this file:
 1. In line 3, add the location of the database (.mat) to be used for comparing the test data to.
 2. In line 6, add the file to be tested.

The output of the code is a decription of the difference between all the speakers and the test file, thus if the f0 of speaker 1 is at 120Hz while the test wav file is at 100 the solution will be the absolute value of the difference between the two. The output will also be a plot of the f0 of each file in the dataset and test file. The speaker is identified by the smallest difference between the databse files and the test file. The f is given as the highest frequency component in the frequency domain.

## Audio_player
To use this file:
 1. Add file path in line 2 of the wav file to play.
